Update README (#54)
greenelab/mpmp: README.md

# *mpmp*: *M*ultimodal *P*an-cancer *M*utation *P*rediction

**Jake Crawford, Brock C. Christensen, Maria Chikina, Casey S. Greene**

**University of Pennsylvania, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Dartmouth College, University of Pittsburgh**

Manuscript (in progress) is located here: https://greenelab.github.io/mpmp-manuscript/

In studies of cellular function in cancer, researchers are increasingly able to choose from many -omics assays as functional readouts.

> Choosing the correct readout for a given study can be difficult, and it is not always clear which layer of cellular function is most suitable to capture the relevant signal.

Reviewer: Relevant signal for what?

Author: Reworded this slightly (hopefully that will help clarify). I think we want to keep it fairly general here.

Here, we consider prediction of cancer mutation status (presence or absence) from functional -omics data in the TCGA Pan-Cancer Atlas as a representative problem.

Across a collection of cancer-associated genetic alterations (point mutations and CNVs), RNA sequencing and DNA methylation were the most effective predictors of alteration state.

> Surprisingly, we found that for most alterations, they were approximately equally effective predictors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Surprisingly, we found that for most alterations, RNA-seq and DNA methylation were approximately equally effective predictors.
```

> The target gene was the primary driver of performance, rather than the data type, and there was little difference between the top data types for the majority of genes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, the target gene was the primary driver of performance, rather than the data type, and there was little difference between the top data types for the majority of genes.
```

Reviewer: I would suggest adding a little information about the question/goal of this repository and approach you use. I think this would really help to clarify this second paragraph where you are summarizing the results.

Author: Good idea! I tried to add a bit more information about what we're actually doing.

We also found that combining data types into a single multi-omics model often provided little or no improvement in predictive ability over the best individual data type.
Based on our results, for the design of studies focused on the functional outcomes of cancer mutations, we recommend focusing on gene expression or DNA methylation as first-line readouts.

## Repository layout

```

> mpmp

Reviewer: Might be helpful to add hyperlinks to these different files here. This is stylistic and completely your choice, but I found that having this information in a markdown table was a bit easier to read: https://github.com/greenelab/generic-expression-patterns

Reviewer: Totally makes sense!
